**Note:** This is not an officially supported Google product. It is a reference
implementation.

# Oculi

Oculi is a Google Cloud-based pipeline for tagging large sets of images or
videos with labels based on their content, generating a BigQuery dataset for
further analysis. Content tagging is done through Cloud's pre-trained computer
vision models (Vision API and Video Intelligence API).

The primary use case is for analyzing creatives (images and videos) in digital
advertising. Combined with creative performance data, the output from this
pipeline can be used to explore correlations between advertising content and
performance (e.g. creatives with a human model tend to perform better).

## Creative Sources

This pipeline supports three sources of creatives [^1]:

*   **A Google Campaign Manager (CM) account.** Oculi will attempt to extract
    all creatives on the account that have an image or video asset in a suitable
    format [^2], then download the asset and save a copy to Cloud Storage. Users
    of DV360 may be able to use this option (see FAQ).
*   **A BigQuery table of URLs.** URLs must point to images or videos, and be
    accessible without login. Oculi will download the asset and save a copy to
    Cloud Storage. The required table columns are:
    *   `Creative_ID`, an unique integer for each image or video
    *   `Advertiser_ID`, an integer identifying a parent entity
    *   `Creative_Name`, a text field
    *   `Full_URL`, the URL to the image or video file
*   **A Google Cloud Storage (GCS) bucket of creative files.** Files must be
    image or video files (JPG and MP4 preferred) at the top level of the bucket.
    *   If the filenames follow the convention `{numeric_id}_{other_stuff}.jpg`,
        then the `numeric_id` will be used as the `creative_id`.
    *   Otherwise, a `creative_id` is generated by calling the Python `hash()`
        function on the entire filename.

[^1]: The term "creative" is used to indicate just the image or video content in
    an ad, excluding other components like targeting preferences.
[^2]: This excludes dynamic creatives. The goal of this pipeline is to break
    images and videos down into their content components; dynamic creatives
    are already broken into content components. Rather, analysis of the data
    from this pipeline can be used to inform a dynamic creative strategy.

## Google Cloud components

This pipeline uses:

*   *Dataflow* for orchestration,
*   *Vision API* and *Video Intelligence API* for content tagging,
*   *Storage* for storing creative assets (images and videos),
*   *BigQuery* for storing content tagging output.

## Prerequisites

Basic requirements for setup include:

*   Python 2.7
*   Google Cloud SDK

Full requirements can be found in `requirements.txt` and will be installed for
you through setup scripts.

## Running the pipeline

1.  *(Optional)* If you would like a virtual environment set up for you:

    ```bash
    source presetup_virtualenv.sh
    ```

2.  Install dependencies, configure the Google Cloud SDK environment, and obtain
    credentials:

    ```bash
    ./setup_environment.sh
    ```

    This step should generate a `client_secrets.json` file in your current
    directory.

3.  Create a jobfile in `jobs/` using `sample.yaml` as a reference. A few tips:

    *   Common acronyms used in this file: `gcp` = Google Cloud Platform,
        `gcs` = Google Cloud Storage, `bq` = BigQuery.
    *   All entities referenced in this file must already exist, e.g. the
        `data_destination.bq_dataset` will not be created for you.
    *   In `creative_source_details`, you can delete the sections for the
        sources you're not using to avoid confusion.
    *   If using CM, the `cm_profile_id` must refer to a User Profile matching
        the email in `client_secrets.json`. For more information, see the FAQ
        below.

4.  Run the job:

    ```bash
    python run.py jobs/JOBFILE.yaml [--limit 50] [--local]
    ```

    *   Use the optional `--limit` flag to cap the number of creatives for
        testing.
    *   Use the optional `--local` flag to run on your local machine for testing
        (not fully supported).

## Frequently Asked Questions

**How do I pull creatives from DV360 rather than Campaign Manager?**

Your DV360 creatives may be accessible from Campaign Manager; work with your
Google account manager or gTech contact.

**When using Campaign Manager as a source, how do I fill out `cm_profile_id`?**

Any request to Campaign Manager must be done through a User Profile (see
[this Help Center article](https://support.google.com/dcm/answer/6098287?hl=en)
for more information). Oculi requires its own User Profile, tied to the service
account (robot email account) which will be used to run this pipeline. If you
don't have access to Campaign Manager, you'll need a trafficker with access to
create this for you.

To confirm which email should be used, check inside `client_secrets.json` after
it has been generated by `setup_environment.sh`. The desired field is
`client_email`.

**How do I pull creatives from Google Ads, YouTube, or some other source?**

There are two ways to extend this pipeline for sources other than CM. The
simplest method is to extract creatives from another source separately,
generating either a list of URLs to use as a BigQuery source, or a collection of
files to use as a GCS source.

If you want to fully integrate your creative extraction into the pipeline,
another option is to write a Python function to generate an in-memory list of
URLs. This function can then be used to start the pipeline; see the current CM
extraction method in `main.py` and `cm_helper.py` for an example. Since this
method requires an in-memory list, we don't recommend it for massive volume.

**The pipeline finished, but I see fewer creatives than expected.**

There are many potential causes; the easiest way to investigate is by clicking
on specific nodes in the Dataflow job graph and looking at the Input and Output
collections. If you see a dropoff...

*   ... in the Output of *Pull creatives from CM*: creatives were skipped
    because they were outside the date range, or because they were unsuitable
    formats (e.g. tracking pixels). Note that the `--limit` option is applied
    before these filters, so you'll get fewer than your limit.
*   ... between Input and Output of *Copy assets to GCS*: creatives failed to
    download. Oculi attempts to find an asset URL for every creative (see
    `cm_helper.py`), but this method is imperfect and fails for older creatives
    in particular.
*   ... between Input and Output of an *Extract* step: creatives were filtered
    out because they weren't relevant for this table, e.g. only creatives with
    faces detected will end up in the `face_annotations` table.
    
**`setup_environment.sh` is failing, complaining about version mismatches
and/or `EnvironmentError`s.**

Try using a virtual environment (step 1) to avoid any mismatches between the
versions of libraries you already have installed on your system vs. the
versions specified in `requirements.txt`.

## Authors

*   Oly Bhaumik (sisrikshab@google.com)
*   Christopher Bian (cbian@google.com)
*   Aritra Biswas (aritrab@google.com)
*   David Letts (dgletts@google.com)
*   Eddie Ye (edwardye@google.com)
